Difficulty: <span style="color:lime">Easy</span>

Description: Given a **non-empty** array of integers `nums`, every element appears _twice_ except for one. Find that single one.

You must implement a solution with a linear runtime complexity and use only constant extra space.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [2,2,1]
**Output:** 1

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [4,1,2,1,2]
**Output:** 4

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [1]
**Output:** 1

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 10^4`
-   `-3 * 10^4 <= nums[i] <= 3 * 10^4`
-   Each element in the array appears twice except for one element which appears only once.

### Approach 1
$O(n)$ Time Complexity
$O(n)$ Space Complexity
Explanation: Create a hashset where we will go through each integers of the `nums` array and if the hashset contains `nums` at index `i`, remove it from the hashset. Otherwise add it to the hashset. Go through the hashset and return whatever is in it--it should only have one integer.
```java
class Solution {
    public int singleNumber(int[] nums) {
        Set<Integer> hs = new HashSet();
        for(int i : nums) {
            if(hs.contains(i))
                hs.remove(i);
            else
                hs.add(i);
        }
        
        for(int i : hs)
            return i;
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

### Approach 2
$O(n \log n)$ Time Complexity
$O(1)$ Space Complexity
Explanation: First sort the `nums` array. Then loop through the array starting from index 1, since we need to keep track of the index before `i`, and skipping every 2 indices. If `nums` at index `i` does not equal the index before it, return that index--the index before `i`. Outside of the loop, return the second to last index.
```java
class Solution {
    public int singleNumber(int[] nums) {
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        for(int i = 1; i < nums.length; i += 2) {
            if(nums[i] != nums[i - 1])
                return nums[i - 1];
        }
        return nums[nums.length - 1];
    }
}
```

### Approach 3
$O(n)$ Time Complexity
$O(1)$ Space Complexity
Explanation: Set an integer called `single`  to 0. Loop through the `nums` array and after every index, we XOR it with `single`. When a number is XORed with itself, such as `a xor a`, it equals 0. So if a number `i` in [2,2,1] is XORed with `single`, `single` is set to 0 when it encounters any duplicates and 1, in this example, when we reach the end. It would probably be easier to write out the operation as such: `single = single ^ i` .
```java
class Solution {
	public int singleNumber(int[] nums) {
		int single = 0;
		for(int i : nums) {
			single ^= i;
		}
		return single;
	}
}
```

#easy #array #arrays #length #hashset #integer #xor 